All right in this example we're asked to find the equivalent resistance of this combination here for
resistors.
So I think what I would first start with is just first notice that both of these guys here in this shaded
area both of those guys are in parallel.
So let's start by simplifying both of those in the way you simplified that both of those is just remember
the formula.
So I'm going to call that our equivalent and that mentally put a little one over here.
That's simply one over four plus one over 12 which you can do is you can put things on a common denominator
here 12 is kind of a good choice.
This here is three over 12 plus one over 12 gives me for over 12.
You take the inverse of that are equivalent one then gives me three homes.
Now just remember that if you only have two of them you can also quickly just write that down by simply
multiplying them and divided by the sum you multiply you get 48 over 16.
That also gives you three homes.
OK so we've simplified everything here into three homes and now what you should do is now you should
combine the three homes with everything here.
So with the five.
Right because the three arm which is the equivalent of both of those is now in series with this 5 ohm
resistor.
So how do we combine both of those I'm going to call this our equivalent to not squared but number 2.
So that is simply going to be five plus three.
And then there gives me 8.
So that's everything here in this bottom branch gives me 8 ohms.
And now what am I left with.
Well I'm left with an 8 ohm resistor down here which is everything.
Maybe box it up here.
Everything kind of in this red circle is now going to be in parallel with this 24 ohm resistor and everything
and this we just solve for this was 8 ohms.
So what does that mean.
Well at the end now you can solve for the total equivalent resistance.
Let me call it total because this is the last step we have to do it again.
Oh.
Both of those are in parallel.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to use the same trick as I previously used to I multiply them and
I divide by the sum.
Since there's only two of them I think that works kind of nice.
So if you multiply them you get 24 multiplied by 8.
And now if you divide that by 24 plus 8.
All right that's the sum.
So at the end let's try to simplify this a little bit.
24 multiplied by 8 divided by 32 32 goes in the 8 4 times and 24 goes into 4 6 times.
So at the end this complete network here can simply be replaced by one equivalent resistor.
So I can put Point 8 here an equivalent resistor of six ohms and then go all the way to point B and
I have basically the equivalent
current in the equivalent voltage across both of those points.
OK so there you go you have this is kind of a good one because you can kind of involves some parallel
combinations with series and then another parallel case.
So kind of a good practice problem for you guys.